Let's start talking about basic
capabilities that we won't cover today.
And I will explain why we are not
going to cover this today.
First, how many capabilities
do we have on the web?
Hundreds, actually,
because even without counting CSS,
just talking about JavaScript APIs.
How many APIs are we going to
cover today in this workshop?
36, so we will spend minutes talking
about 36 different capabilities.
But there are a lot of other
capabilities that are more core, or
more on the edge, like use cases,
that we are not going to cover today.
I will just mention that that exists,
and that's all.
And for the basic capabilities, you have
the Frontend Masters library that you know
is the best library out there to
learn about web development, right?
And you will find a lot of information and
experience with those APIs.
And that's, for example,
using the Fetch API for networking.
Web Workers for threading.
Remember, we are not going
to talk about these today.
WebAssembly, that lets you
run WebAssembly modules that
are actually native code that you
can write with a lot of languages,
from C to Kotlin, to Swift, to TypeScript.
You compile that into native code and
then you can run it natively.
So WebSockets,
that's how to open the socket to a server.
WebRTC, real-time communication.
Web performance APIs,
I have another workshop here at
Frontend Masters on web performance.
The network information API that will let
you know if you are connected through
Wi-Fi, 4G, if you're offline or not.
Device memory that's,
how much RAM do you have in the computer?
That's very specific.
WebOTP, that's a one-time password.
I'm not sure if you've ever heard
about that, one-time password?
So that's when you get an SMS
with a confirmation code,
when you are signing up in your website.
There is an API now that can read the code
from the SMS, from JavaScript, so
then you don't need the user to go to
the messages, copy and paste the code.
And so that's an API for doing that.
Web crypto that has nothing to do with
cryptocurrencies or the blockchain.
It's had to do with cryptography,
the original cryptography,
that if you wanna encrypt or
decrypt, okay?
Things, so we are not going
to cover these capabilities.
Also we won't cover storage capabilities,
why?
Because in Frontend Masters you
already have another course on this,
and probably you know that
guy that appears there.
So there is a Web Storage APIs
course that I did,
that there we cover web storage,
that's local storage,
IndexedDB, cache storage, and
how to access the real FileSystem.
So how to open files and
write files in the FileSystem.
So we won't touch those APIs today.
Also, we won't be covering today a lot of
UI capabilities that can be around CSS,
or things around, for
example, web components.
If you're interested in that,
I also did a workshop on Vanilla JS.
CSS, we won't cover that, or Canvas,
it's an API to render graphics
on the screen, low-level.
WebGL for 3D, pointer lock,
this is typically for gaming.
In that case, you can use your mouse or
your trackpad and
you won't see the cursor anymore.
You can use that to just move, for
example, a viewpoint in a game.
So that's pointer lock.
A screen capture that will let you, for
example, if you are doing a meet or
a Zoom call, and you wanna share
your screen, that's how that works.
So there is an API that
will capture your screen.
So we won't cover that.
Also, we won't cover
basic PWA capabilities.
Don't worry, we have a lot of capabilities
that are pretty cool that we will see.
It's not just negative stuff here.
So on Frontend Masters after
this course you can go get my,
Build PWA from Scratch course where
you will learn about service workers,
the Web App Manifest that will
let you create a PWA that will
install an icon on a user's
computer as a native app.
Background capabilities, so can we
execute JavaScript in the background?
So there are a couple of APIs
that we took in another workshop,
a full day on that, okay?
So that's page visibility, background
sync, that will let you execute or
sync data in the background.
So if the user is closing your web app,
or even if it's closing the browser,
background fetch, and
even web push and notification.
So if you wanna send a notification from
the server to your users while the user is
not even using your app, well,
there is an API for that.
It's called Web Push, okay?
And it has its own unique problems,
advantages.
Now it's available on iOS as well,
only for PWAs.
Well, if you wanna get more into that, so
you have JavaScript in the background
workshop at Frontend Masters as well.
It's a full day on that topic.
And again here,
I'm just listing a lot of capabilities
that I'm not saying they're not important.
But in fact they are important enough to
have a full day only on those APIs, okay?
Media session, as well, that's how you can
play audio or video in the background,
and have controls even if the user
gets out of your website.
You can continue playing in
the background and then for
example you can use your Apple Watch.
Or if you're in a car, you can use
Android Auto or CarPlay from iOS.
And then stop, pause, and
play with your audio from the car to your
web app that is currently
being executed in your phone.
Security capabilities,
also we won't cover.
I think this is the last workshop that
I'm promoting from Frontend Masters
that I did.
For example, if you want web
authentication, that for example,
it's a new way that we have today
on the web to log in into websites
without passwords, what is known
as password-less authentication.
So if you wanna see how to do that,
that's a very nice capability
on the web these days,
that lets you use credential management so
you can store credentials client-side.
It's like storage for credentials,
like username and password, for example.
And you can use these for, for
example, face ID with your iPhone.
So if you wanna log in your users in
your website with face ID, or touch ID,
or Windows Hello on desktop,
then you can use those APIs, okay?
That's a huge capability API
that you have on the web.
And from today, what I want you to take is
to remember that API exists, and is there.
And if you wanna get deeper
into that after this video,
you have more videos to watch and
more workshops to do with more code.